[Music]
Hey ready for some hypothermia here are
10 extinct creatures that will make your
blood run cold
see hypothermia huh yeah do you think
that dinosaurs were kind of scary yeah
think again in its time evolution
created creatures so terrifying
they make dinosaurs look like cute
little babies so do you want to find out
which creatures would have completely
destroyed our world if they were alive
today hey sounds like fun right and
let's get started hey as a bonus we
might even show you something really
gruesome the world's only known literate
dinosaur but before we give you all the
scary details make sure you subscribe to
our Channel and turn on this little
notification bell now you'll always be
on time for every Brightside hangout
counting down from number ten
Liopleurodon yeah this video is full of
arcane $10 words but I'll try to do my
best
Liopleurodon was a giant marine reptile
from the family of short-necked
Plesiosaurus this species lived during
the collodion stage of the middle
Jurassic period pager asking me how
should I know now the typical size of a
Liopleurodon varied from 16 to 23 feet
but the largest reached over 33 feet
considering their length and weight
Liopleurodon were predators eating fish
squid and smaller marine mammals
moreover their nostrils faced forward
which was a sign of their excellent
sense of smell this also made them one
of the best predators of their time and
that's still not the only thing that
made them powerful their long and flat
flippers allowed them to swim extremely
quickly so no one could hide when a
Liopleurodon decided to hunt
unfortunately there are still a lot of
unanswered questions about Leo pleura
dots but one thing is for sure you
wouldn't want to meet them during an
exciting trip to the ocean
number nine arthropleura time for a
millipede to join our list and it's
going to be the extinct Thank You
arthropleura this millipede lived in the
territories of current north eastern
North America and Scotland about 315
million years ago the species range from
almost one to seven feet in length and
were around two feet in width
arthropleura 's body was apparently
composed of around 30 jointed segments
covered by two side plates and one
centre play unlike pretty much all the
other creatures on our list arthropleura
x' weren't predators at simply because
these creatures didn't have strong mouth
parts so they were entirely plant eaters
but even though arthropleura
wouldn't pose any serious danger to us
just imagine looking down as you felt
something brush against your leg and
seeing this the record for the loudest
scream of all time would certainly be
yours luckily when the usual moist
climate started to dry out it was time
for the Arthur of pleura to go number
eight mega lania wait a minute isn't
that like the first lady's no okay mega
lania often called mega lania priska is
the biggest monitor lizard you can
possibly imagine
yup it's easily the largest terrestrial
lizard that ever existed the youngest of
its fossils dates back to approximately
fifty thousand years ago and if you're
from Australia then you probably won't
be surprised to know that mega latias
live there before their unfortunate
extinction but was it really that
unfortunate not for us the length of the
largest mega lanius reached around 23
feet with a maximum weight of 1322 1370
pounds they were unbelievably active
hunters as well
and mega lania fossils were often found
near kangaroos deers and other large
animals of this kind
however there's a little twist to all
these mega lania facts and it's that
these creatures may still be with us in
both the nineteen and twentieth
centuries there were numerous reports of
people seeing creatures that sounded
very much like surviving examples of
mega lenio there's no actual evidence of
this theory apart from those stories but
who knows maybe these creatures are
still roaming our earth number seven
Dunkleosteus Dunkleosteus became extinct
around 358 to 382 million years ago
during the late devonian period however
there wasn't just one Dunkleosteus there
was actually ten species of it including
dieter le d denis Oni and D magnificus
do we get 10 bucks for each of those no
dieter le the largest of them was almost
20 feet long
most Dunkleosteus fossils were found in
North America Poland Belgium and Morocco
the largest Dunkleosteus Torelli's had a
four-bar linkage mechanism for jaw
opening that allowed them to open their
jaws completely in just 20 milliseconds
they really didn't have that many teeth
but it still didn't stop them from
eating marine animals moreover there's
evidence that allows scientists to
conclude that the Dunkleosteus species
occasionally cannibalized each other as
well just when we thought it couldn't
get any more vicious but what do you
think is Dunkleosteus the scary one yet
tell us about it in the comments below
okay let's move right along to number
six
juh clock taurus juh clock Taurus was a
giant predatory sea scorpion that you
definitely would want to see during your
mesmerizing diving experience though if
you did it would certainly be something
you wouldn't forget for a long time
anyway after analyzing its fossil
remains scientists confirm that Jack lop
Taurus reached a size of nearly eight
and a half feet which makes it the
largest arthropod ever these sea
scorpions weren't kin
tenth with underwater herbs like the
harmless arthropleura they prefer to
ambush fish with their spring-loaded
arms and sliced them up using their
claws oh that's a true horror moving
scene that happened during the early
devonian age well judging from this
description they would very much enjoy
human flesh as well thankfully the
Jakara species became extinct way before
we were able to test this horrific
theory number five sarcosuchus now why
are there still no crocodiles on this
list
weren't there any scary ones well let us
introduce you to the sarcosuchus a
distant relative of living crocodiles
that lived about 112 million years ago
and if you're scared of today's
crocodiles this one would make you run
even faster these reptiles were almost
twice as long and weighed up to 17,000
pounds what a croc the first sarcophagus
remains were discovered back in 1946 in
the Sahara Desert paleontologists found
fragments of the creatures skull
vertebrae teeth and other parts with
time scientists found even more
fragments that help them understand what
the sarcophagus looked like according to
what's known now it had somewhat
telescoped eyes and a long snout with 35
teeth on each side of its upper jaw and
31 teeth on each side of its lower one
it's not that hard to hunt with this
type of jaw don't you think apparently
scientists agree suggesting that
sarcophagus might have even eaten some
abundant dinosaurs so we'll say that
modern crocodiles are enough for us
no sarcophagus species please number 4
Gorgon opps long before dinosaurs
started to rule the prehistoric world
there were other dominant predators out
there called gorgonopsids they lived
around 260 million years ago terrifying
all the smaller species of that time as
for their size these creatures were
about 10 feet long and weighed nearly a
thousand pounds
hmm doesn't sound too scary after
everything we've already seen today but
that's not all you might wonder exactly
why gorgonopsids became the main
predators of their time we mean they
were basically at the top of the food
chain
easy it was their massive canines that
protruded almost beyond their lower jaw
plus their legs supported their body
from below as opposed to sprawling out
to the sides disadvantaged allow them to
reach a faster pace and get to their
victims more quickly some theories also
point out that gorgonopsids may have
been warm-blooded which implies having
at least a little bit of fur however
these are still assumptions with no
proof whatsoever but I'm not gonna argue
with old Gordy here you want fur you can
have fur just don't eat me please
number three titanoboa if you can't
stand snakes titanoboa would definitely
have scared you to death it's believed
that this gigantic snake lived in a
region that's now part of northeastern
Colombia and its fossils date back to
about 58 to 60 million years ago
titanoboa holds the scary record for the
largest snake ever discovered with a
total length of nearly 48 feet and a
weight of about 2,500 pounds to put that
into perspective for you it's basically
four times as heavy as a giant anaconda
as for its hunting habits - tenable was
most probably very sneaky coming out of
nowhere and quickly biting its prey in
the jugular well I'm not gonna sleep
tonight it's possible victims could have
been smaller reptiles birds and even
crocodiles so you and I would have stood
no chance against this monster snake but
what would it be like to actually meet a
snake that big
well back in 2012 visitors in the Grand
Central Terminal in New York City were
given the opportunity to envision this
encounter thanks to a full scale model
replica of a to Tana boa it had been
created as a promotion for a TV show
called
titanoboa monster snake and seeing this
model definitely sent chills down pretty
much everybody spy number two is Megan
Marko urops Asst no wait that's a lie
it's just Megan your OPS's yeah but I
got you didn't I most insects are pretty
gross but at least they're small right
well not during the Permian period at
that time the Megan neuraxis species
gigantic dragonflies were the kings and
queens of everything they still continue
to be the biggest insect of all time
with a wing length of 13 inches and a
body length of almost 17 inches now the
very first fossils of Megan urops aswer
actually discovered in France back in
1880 now we know way more about this
species for example their hunting
methods were very similar to the
dragonflies of today the only difference
is that Megan er OPS's was able to eat
even larger organisms because of their
size they detected their victims with
their large eyes and used the spine on
their legs to get a hold of them however
with time atmospheric conditions began
to change
which might have been the main reason
for the extinction of Megan Marco urops
Asst oh sorry but after all whatever
happens happens for the best it would
have been way harder to convince
yourself to leave your house if you knew
there were giant dragonflies flying
outside right number one helicoper en
sharks are unbelievably scary but after
seeing the helicoper yet the shark from
Jaws seems like a cutie
this unusual shark like fish was around
290 million years ago living in North
America Eastern Europe Asia and no
wonder Australia's waters Wow poor
Australia just can't catch a break here
the most distinctive feature of
helicoprion was its circular jaw now
just imagine something like this coming
towards you man
it would have been impossible to return
to the water ever again even if you
survived the experience
apparently this creepy jaw operated like
a buzzsaw
mowing into its prey and carving it up
however here's a plot twist most
scientists believe that the helicopter
in wasn't a shark instead they're sure
it was closely related to the chimeras a
type of deep-sea fish well sharks are
not helicoprion sprue v' to be
incredibly strong since they survived
the Permian Triassic extinction event
that killed 90% of marine animals and
around 70% of terrestrial ones but it
only bought them a few million years
before their own extinction and that's
how evolution saved us all once again
and now here's a bonus a dinosaur that
was really really really scary
the first literate dinosaur yes a
dinosaur that could actually read it was
called a thesaurus that's right the
thesaurus was easy to spot always
carrying a book or magazine to read its
ultimate downfall always looking for
alternative words which meant the same
thing
t-rex ate him some food for thought so
which one of these horrific creatures
scared you the most tell us in the
comment section below if you found this
video interesting hit the like button
and share it with your friends and
family if you want to see more
informative videos like this one click
Subscribe and join us on the bright side
of life until next time
you